# 5 Factors of the Entrepreneurial Mindset

I have always been very curious about how successful businessmen think. I was born to a non-entrepreneurial family (i.e., I grew up to a skills-based service-oriented family), at the exception of my grandmother who had a <i>sari-sari </i>store. When I was young, I tried a lot of mini-businesses like selling popsicles, but those were shortlived because once I raised enough money to buy what I want, the mini-businesses stopped. When I grew up a bit older, I took it upon myself to enroll to an online class (I'll put the link here once I find it)&nbsp;that looks deep into the entrepreneurial mindset and how they bring new technologies from <a href="http://blog.ayoayco.com/2017/03/zero-to-one-getting-ahead-other.html" target="_blank">zero to one</a>. This is when I decided to start a <a href="http://absorbingdesign.com/" target="_blank">web development business of my own</a>.<br />
<br />
I surely learned a lot and took a lot of notes on the lessons. Here are some. I found that the entrepreneurial mindset consists of five distinct factors:<br />
<br />
1. First, the entrepreneur has an <i>Urge </i>to reach an achievement and will overcome challenges, accepting that he/she has to take responsibility for the outcomes of his/her decisions.<br />
<br />
2. Second factor is the person's <i>Individuality</i>&nbsp;that enables the person to go against the flow, and go about his/her life with very little need for approval--or none at all.<br />
<br />
3. Third factor is <i>Control</i>&nbsp;where the person believes that his/her choices determine his/her fate.<br />
<br />
4. Fourth factor is <i>Focus</i>&nbsp;which enables the entrepreneur to pour out all of his/her thinking and energy into a single task at a time.<br />
<br />
5. Last factor for the entrepreneurial mindset is <i>Optimism</i> which enables a person to have a positive outlook and favor the benefits behind a circumstance.<br />
<br />
These five factors separate how entrepreneurs think from others and enable them to respond to circumstances differently. For me, in many ways, entrepreneurs are leaders who call people toward a vision that they see/perceive. Daily, I'm doing my best to be one of them and hone this mindset. Do you think you got these five factors?
